Happy holidays everyone. Happy holidays. I'm Alan. I'm Brit. And we're here for episode 32 of AB Testing.
32. The last AB Testing of 2016. 15. The last AB Testing of 2015. Because it's not 2016 yet.
And I was thinking the other day when the year changed, I remember there was a time when it
took a month for you to start writing the correct date on your checks. Yep. But we don't have that
problem anymore because no one writes checks anymore. That's true. We sent email and email
already figured it out. It already has a day for us. So computers are, I don't know if they're making
us smarter or allowing us to continue to be done. They're improving our lives. That's a pain point
for everybody every year. And it's now a pain point. They're improving our lives. No, it's all right.
Computers have made the fact that we no longer actually have to, we can remember what year it
is at our own leisure. Yeah. Computers already know it. And now that I'm over 50, I don't really
even care anymore. Have you noticed as you get older, it seems like time goes faster? No.
It's always the same. The same slow march towards death. Fair enough. Okay. Hey, before we start
today, we have a very special, Brent and I are going to sing Christmas carols. No, don't,
don't press stop kidding. Kidding. Say, I wanted to give a shout out to a couple of guys from
hotels.com who sent me a LinkedIn request to have a drink and they invited Brent to, and I
mostly forgot to invite Brent and I forgot about them because I don't check my LinkedIn
very often until the last minute. And I was a really busy week and I said, Oh, hey,
I'll meet you for a drink. So I met with cash and Sam and David. The hotels.com, you know,
is owned by Expedia. Right. So David, I hope that name is right. It does work in the Bellevue
office. A very similar path to mind getting into software. Very interesting. It's cool.
And cash is their director of QA, I believe. And Sam was just some marketing guy, but nice
regardless of that. I had a good time. I hung out for about an hour, talked about the biz,
talked about people in the biz, talked about the podcast, little, et cetera, et cetera. But
always happy to visit with one member, any members of the three. Right. And it could,
do you think it's seven? No, it's three. It's three. Okay. No, I like how you phrase it the
other day. It's always just three. Just the people just rotate in and out. It's like
turtles all the way down. All right. So hotels.com. I find it, I find these type of things
fascinating. So this is the second time a representative, a company has reached out,
Redfin being the first in my mind to the podcast. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah.
Maybe that's a topic for the agenda. I don't know. Yeah. What do you think,
do you have any intuition as to what inspired them to reach out? I think they're going to be in
Bellevue and, and, uh, one of his keys, David beer in some regards, because I think about what
we represent to the test community. Cause in some regards to some portion of the test community,
well, to some portion, we're like sacrilege and well, absolutely. That's what I was thinking.
But I think that's changing. It's interesting. Uh, that's going to come up a lot today because
today we have a very special show. It's kind of like a very special Christmas, but without the
singing, we're going to talk about some of our reflections from 2015, some, some, including some
of our favorites, not just for 2015, but just a given a few shout outs. And then, uh, we're going
to talk about what's going to happen in 2016, including some wild predictions, predicting the
future is hard, especially when it's about the future or something like that. Yogi Berra quote.
Yeah. Predicting. No, no, I thought Yogi Berra was one of my pick and nick basket.
Oh, yeah. You'll get there.
Hard, especially when they're about the, yeah, I know I had already got gone down a path. I
didn't want to correct it. So, uh, we'll go with that. So for a baseball player, he was a wise,
wise man. Okay. So Brent, yes, Alan, give me in the kind of, what's the highlights? What happened
to you in 2015? Give me your recap. Uh, 2015. Thank you. I would say the single most important
thing that has happened to me in 2015 was my new job. The Ditto. Yeah. The, the, I had,
now in a formal data science role, uh, on a team that has a lot of problems in this space. I don't
know about you, but I, they say men are all problem solvers, but I'm extra problem solvery.
I love teams with problems. The biggest, the hardest, the ones where people say we can't
change this. I love those. I was going to ask if that meant you were a man's man,
but I know that's not correct. You can just look at me right now. That's not true. It's hard to
look at you, Brent. So right now, um, so at work today, we have an ugly sweater contest
and unfortunately for the podcast, it works better if we, if we look at each other to,
to be able to bounce off of each other's body language. And unfortunately, uh, I get to look at
a cool sweatshirt, a t-shirt from Allen and he gets to look at me and, um, probably the single
ugliest 49ers Christmas holidays sweat or sweater ever. Yeah. And I love this boring, boring,
boring, boring. All right. So that's for me in summation, uh, the absolute best things I get to
do data science stuff. Um, you went to strategy. You see, you went on the road for this. I, but I,
this was a year where I finally went to New York, which was fantastic. Um, summer travels. Uh, all I
did was I've gone to Walt Disney world. I've done that before. Um, but it was the first time with my
five year old daughter. So that's always fun. Very cool. For me, I was thinking while you were
talking because I don't, wasn't really listening, but I understand you said, uh, the job change and
the new job. And for me, absolutely. This, uh, much better role for it aligns with what we talk
about in the podcast. It aligns with what kind of sort of who I am and what I do and the value
I bring to the team. Uh, I'm a hole filler. I'm a problem solver. I'm a Wheeler and a dealer. Uh,
but what, what actually what I was thinking about was you said, it's your job. And I said ditto.
And which means same thing, which is something that only my job is your best thing in 2015.
But Brent, we'll talk about just to bring my age thing in here again, as I'm, as I continue to be
ponder my, uh, my, my decades on the planet. How long has it been since they've used a ditto machine?
Maybe elementary school. I just flashed back to sixth grade.
So I'm in it. Yeah. Um, I fire that word out once in a while, but I think I'm going to find
the new younger hip word so I can relate to the young, to the, um, more youthful listeners.
I think they still use ditto. Did they really that word? Does that word mean anything to anybody?
Well, let's save that for the comment section. So for me, I think the closest is, uh, I K R.
I know. Right. Right. Yeah. But you don't say, but you don't say I K R out loud.
Like I would look at you and go, LOL. Because that's kind of stupid. So, um, other than that,
um, great time. I did some traveling this year. I didn't write them all down. So probably going
to forget something. No huge vacations this year. The previous year was my year of massive
numbers of vacations, um, or massive time away from work. But this year I did a quick
trip to Vegas for the better software conference to, uh, fill in for a speaker that I canceled,
which was great. Cause that has turned into a, uh, a workshop for this year, which I'm excited
about in June. And I did, um, in the Netherlands, uh, the Eurostar deep dive at a great,
met so many cool people there. Um, it was a good time. I'm really glad I went,
leading up to it. I have to say, and hopefully the star folks aren't listening, but it's like,
this happens to me sometimes when I do conferences, I go, you know, I thought this would be a good time
to go. Good time for me to be away. But man, this is a hard, hard week to be gone. And it
happened again, but I'm still, I'm glad I, and then I'm glad I went. So it worked out really well
despite my, um, like 36 hours trip home, but great times. Um, let's talk about a few of our
favorites. Um, I want to just kind of give a, and these aren't like, I didn't like stack rank.
These I hate these top 10 lists of blogs, Twitter followers, blah, blah, blah. But just,
I just wanted to mention, uh, better than, uh, I mean us retrospecting this way is in my view better
than us forming together the best of AB testing podcast. Yeah. Cause it would be like three
seconds long. Hey, everybody click. So do you want to start? Um, do you want to tell me,
do you have a favorite podcast or blog or, or anything you want to share? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So my absolutely, uh, favorite podcast, um, is the series, uh, Freakonomics. They have a, oh,
yeah. I haven't listened to that in a while. I do like freaking out.
I listened to that every time, but I went and looked and tried to find, um, one in particular
that, uh, just one episode that I was like, Oh wow. And they're just all awesome. So, um,
my selection is, uh, from a different podcast, this American life, uh, often you'll hear,
Oh yeah. I like this American life on NPR and it's episode four, oh three, where they talk about
the new me plant in Fresno, California. And the story is about how GM just tried to do an experiment,
alongside Toyota. Um, and they shifted one of their American plants and it was the least,
uh, functional plant that GM was managing and they were almost about to close it. Um,
but they basically built American trucks or American cars. I forget what actual car they built
using the Toyota process. And it was the first, uh, plant that was essentially using Agile
methodologies for manufacturing. And in a matter of year, um, it may have been two years. This
plant ended up being the single most functional plant and profitable plant in GM's, uh, fleet. Um,
but if you go, look, this plant no longer exists. They, it got sold and it's gone. And the primary
reason was GM leadership. They all refused to believe it was because of the process. And I,
boy, there are lessons to be learned. Yeah. When, when, um, put an Astro Scott, I put a pin in that
they keep on going, but that's going to come up later in predictions. I want to reference that.
When, when I, when I, uh, so I have helped, uh, numerous teams shift to Agile and it has
continuously, um, befuddled and irritated me on how easy it is for management to, to ignore how
awesome what they are able to do now, um, view it as a one-off and, um, abandon it primarily because
fear of, uh, change, uh, the flood fear, uncertainty, doubt. Yep. The one biggest thing that happened here,
um, uh, was, Hey, this changed the power structure. This changed, uh, how re reviews would be done.
This changed essentially, uh, everything that the leadership was used to. And that was more
important to the leadership than running a better business. Yeah. That happens a lot. We always hear
stories about that. Yeah. In fact, sometimes I get mad at how often management air quotes management
gets blamed for problems, but there's an example where you can actually validly point it there.
It's a great episode. This American life episode four, oh three titled new me. Okay.
I interpreted this prediction. This, this fave little difference. I'm not gonna talk about a
specific podcast specific podcast. I'm going to talk about my favorite podcast. And I couldn't
pick once I picked three, there's three I listened to faithfully every week. And one comes out
multiple times a week. And it's my, it's my morning commute show. So it's actually my favorite. So
I'll go in reverse order, my top three. Uh, so again, just sharing, sharing random stuff.
These have nothing to do with software testing. Like yours is actually, you can relate it to
your job. These are just things that actually helped me get through the day by make,
by engaging my brain in different ways. And actually for my number one, I do have a favorite
episode, which actually is the most recent, which is it appeals to every bit of geek in my body.
And I'm as I'm wearing my geek t-shirt to my smart bear t-shirt says geek on it.
But, um, also, so with that preamble, uh, also from NPR, I used to listen to wait,
wait, don't tell me on the radio all the time. I would, I would make sure I'd have my alarm
set. So I love the show. I think it's clever. Yeah. Wait, wait, wait. You don't have to look
it up. No, I'm just typing it. So, uh, wait, wait. Don't tell me is NPR. It's, um, it's a
quiz show kind of thing, but the it's, it's done. It's very funny. It's very witty. Uh,
the characters are great. They had Nico case on last week who I love. And, uh, it was just,
it's a fun show to listen to. I like it cause I, and they have, they, they're guests every week.
Sometimes you learn the most insightful things from them. Um, uh, I'm not going to go listen
to examples cause I didn't get into a rat hole. I'd never get out of wait, wait, don't tell me
fun show. Listen to it every week. I skipped the best of weeks when they're doing filler, but,
uh, it's always fun. I always, always enjoy that show. And I always, it's actually, it's sort of a,
um, way for me to catch up on current events also. Cause the quizzes are based on current
events. Like what happened in the news is like who said this? Then they make some
jokes about it. It's pretty funny. It's really where I've gained the vast majority of my Trump
humor. Next one is I, I am F you. So I am a bit, I do like kind of trivia ran, you know, um,
when I was younger and had more free time, I'm the kind of guy that would go to trivia nights
and pubs and I drink more than I helped the trivia team. So it was fun. I like, I don't like
showing off my knowledge. I like learning the knowledge. So I don't care if I had a winner,
get things around there and go, Oh wow, that's really cool. I learned something.
So there's a show called, um, good job brain, uh, which I listened to and it's, uh, uh, for
Bay area folks, two men, two women, and they just do random trivia, fart jokes, um, uh,
quizzes, et cetera, et cetera. But it's fun. So it's like trivia pursuit on the air. Yeah.
But they're actually, they're, they're really popular. They actually did a podcast recording
in a theater and people show up like they got, they got, they got serious game going on.
There's fun. But my favorite one, like peeling to the other side of my geek,
maybe we should think about that. No, no. Imagine what the podcast would be like if,
if we were entertaining or informative, dude, we tried that at redfin. Oh, right.
So my favorite, um, uh, my favorite podcast to listen to is, uh, uh, a podcast called total
soccer show, which is, I listened to the MLS podcast for a while. It's called extra time radio
and it just awful. The, the speak, the speakers are awful. They just, they're just, they're,
it's hard to listen to. They only speak about MLS teams and I kind of like worldwide soccer.
So I found this podcast a year or so ago called total soccer show. It's not the sounders, right?
Dude, why do you have to like, what is your favorite team? Favorite team is probably the
sounders. I like the local TV. Gotta support the local team. No, I don't. Yeah. It says,
I say to the guy wearing a 49ers jersey. Yeah. Great. Um, no, I actually thought you were,
oh, maybe it's, maybe it's our buddy James. Uh, I thought that, uh, I thought your favorite team
was some team in England. Well, my favorite team before the sounders had, uh, MLS league,
even that a, uh, a lower level team, my favorite team before the sounders became a pro team was
arsenal. Where, where are they? They're in the premier league in England. Okay. English
Premier League. Gotcha. I think it's just called the premier league. No, they keep on changing
the name. It's Barclays Premier League. I don't know. Anyway, total soccer show. Very cool.
But their last episode, okay. I got to lead up to this because like last week they had an episode
of they, and they, they cover games really well in depth. And one thing I like to do is to do these
very specific predictions. So they do these predictions for games and it's not things like,
you know, um, man city will beat Norwich. No, it's the goalie will do a tornado kick and score.
Dude, dude, dude, just don't call him a goalie. Call him the keeper. Sorry. All right. I had learned
that. So, uh, they'll say, um, so and so we'll do three stepovers, go around the defender and
score a goal sometime during the game or so and so we'll get a yellow card or the team will have
three very specific predictions that, you know, just kind of, and they'll say statewide. So it's
very interesting. They're analysis. I love analysis, whether it's of software or of soccer,
but last week or maybe two weeks ago, they did an episode on, uh, the star were starting 11. So
there's two hosts and let me finish 11. Each one picked what they, a soccer team from keeper
standard four, four, two, four backs, you know, flat, flat floor in the back, uh, uh, four in the
mid two strikers. They picked who from the star Wars universe would play each position and why,
which was pretty cool, but even cooler this last week, they did the Marvel cinematic world
starting 11. So you had to pick from the Marvel cinematic world. Are there 11 dude, dude from
just marvel? Yes, there are. Yeah, they had different teams and the teams were awesome
because, oh yeah. If you add in the X-Men, you could get it. No, no. X-Men actually are not part
of the Marvel cinematic universe or a separate thing, but we do have Avengers and guardians of
the galaxy to choose from plus. What do you mean? X-Men are not part of the Marvel cinematic
universe. Dude, dude, I cannot know dude, dude, dude, I'm good. I'm not going to go read to you
from marvel that X-Men are a separate franchise, but they're not part of the universe. So
Marvel cinematic universe, and I can't believe I'm geeking out here is where this universe
that marvels crazy. Like this is like, like we're Jessica Jones and Daredevil and the Avengers
and all these folks live is actually, they, they can intertwine and connect the X-Men. There will
be no crossover there. They're separate. So anyway, dude drives me crazy. You're looking
shit up while I'm talking, but you got to imagine who is your best center defender,
who is the best defender. Of course, it's captain America. He's got a shield. Who do you want to
put in there to, to, to clean up and make sure nobody gets anywhere. The Hulk. And I great,
the left back. I can't remember who's it was, but I'm Groot. Sure. I'm Groot. Groot would be
a pretty kick ass defender as well. Yeah. Anyway, appeal to all, all of my geekiness,
soccer and Marvel comics all at once was, was really cool. Is there a position for ant man?
Yes. Anywhere. Actually, there's, there's two ways to think ant man. Um, the best position
for ant man is a striker. And let me explain why. And then you can stop looking at your damn
computer while I talk. All right. Ant man. So if you know, soccer, what you, the good striker
wants to do is stay just on side the whole time. And the metaphor they say is you want
to stay on the shoulder of the last defender. So when that pass comes through, you can bolt
forward and get to that ball and just only have to go against the keeper. So ant man can literally
be on the shoulder of the defender literally. And then somebody has kicks it through ball.
He bursts into full size, gets the ball, scores a goal. Ant man is a fantastic striker. All right.
That was pretty fantastic. Yeah. That was from the show. I did not make that up. That is stuff
I learned listening to a soccer show. So how about, how about rocket? Can you do the same thing with
rocket? I am going to take your computer and I'm going to bust it over your head.
I'm just amazed at the X-Men aren't considered part of the MCU.
Dude, there's so much of the wrong kind of geek in you. Let me, I'll continue.
I'm a breathwise geek. So I'm only going to mention one blog I like this year. I read,
I have a, I need to clean out my, my feedly feeds. I have too many and some I'd never look at.
Some I always click on markers read. I've never read. I need, I need a feature that says if I've
never actually scrolled down and doing this blog, just remove it for me or put it into my,
you know, back burner. So I need to do that sometime manually, but I read a lot of blogs
and consistently over at least the past year or longer, I've been reading this blog called
a season testers crystal ball by this finished tester. Her name is
Marat Fieri Arvi. That sound finished. I'm going to, I'm going to do it. But I like her posts
because I sometimes I look at my go, I could have wrote that, but she wrote it better.
That's that relates to an experience I have. And I also like in testing, there are,
I'm not going to go into rant mode, but there are a lot of blind followers of like of,
I see a lot of blog posts that are, Oh, you've rehashed something. One of the people you,
you respect has said before, you just rehashing it, rehashing it, rehashing. That's great.
And then sometimes I see not only thought, but I see someone confident enough in what they're
doing to stand up. And even if they know that people are reading them are not going to agree
with them, this is my experience. This is why I think it's good and blah. And I see that from
consistently. So it's, it's a, one of the few blog posts or posts that I always read when a blog
post comes out. I wanted to give her a shout out. And if you, if you're not reading a season
testers, crystal ball or following my Rhett M A A R E T P on Twitter, you probably should,
because I think she has a lot of great things to say. You know what we should,
I'll send you the links to the things that I've, I've put down because that makes sense to put
in the blurb for this one. Yeah. I'll actually have to write a regular like longer post for
this one. So yeah, send me your stuff. So Brett, do you have a favorite? You probably did a favorite
specific blog post, but maybe not. I don't know. What do you have for the blogosphere you want to
share with our listeners? These are our gifts to you. So my absolute favorite post I couldn't
find because you're the one who found it. And it was, it was the, so we could start with my favorite
podcast, AB podcast. I'll give, no, we're not. No, my favorite AB podcast was the generalizing
specialist episode. Oh, what number was that? I don't know. Damn it. Long ago. It was the,
Allen and Brent finally had the, the, the generalizing specialist, specializing generalist battle.
And then you came in with a post that, that very aptly described generalizing specialists.
So I, for me, that was probably the most important blog post of the year.
Was that this year? It was, we did it like in January, March, February, April, May, one of those
months. The, the non-testing blog that I follow most is something called leadership freak.
And essentially what he does is that freak FR or PHR. FR. Okay. It's on WordPress. He,
what's his tagline? The, the best leadership inspiration he can do in 300 words or less. So
it's, it's like a double Twitter, a double tweet. And he continuously posts and it's these fantastic
insights on what it, the difference between leadership and management. Just, just love it.
And then on the test front, this one was harder. One of the things that's, that's begun to happen
is a lot of the, in my view, the useful test blogs are really beginning to die off.
There's a lot of test blogs and podcasts that you go now and you go, Hey guys,
last episode, 2014, last episode, 2013, last blog post, but Michael Larson's
still alive and well. Yeah. And he's prolific. He's, he's fantastic. I also usually, I'll,
I'll, I'll always read his bike, 95% of the time read his and beginning to end when they come out.
The thing I like about his posts is he's learning and publishing around how the test discipline is
morphing. Right. You go look at his several last several posts and they're going to be about
agile testing, which I think is the next phase that we'll see those, those teams that do have
testers. I think that will be the, the dominant way to do testing very soon. Yeah. Michael is another
one who's when I read his posts, there's, we have a lot of similarities in how we,
uh, kind of how we contribute to our teams. How about you? We already do you. We already did me.
Okay. Fantastic dude. Any other memories from 2015? You want to share it before we go on?
No, I got to meet, um, Steven Johnson this year, who was, uh, I'm a total Steven Johnson fanboy.
Yeah. He's the guy that wrote, um, how we get to now, which I rip off of a lot to one of the best
books I read on innovation. He's, he's also where ideas come from, right? No. We're good ideas come
from. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. My son and I watched his, he did a series on PBS and he was really,
I wanted to watch and I said, you might like this. It's like, yeah, who watched the next
story? Who watched the next one? So it was really cool. Um, I think he's just a smart,
actually a smart guy, great writer. You really enjoy him. Sometime this, uh, this year you,
you talked about, uh, that, that PBS show. Um, I've tried to record it. I just couldn't find it.
I think it's on Netflix. Oh, yeah. Fantastic. So send out the name. Oh, I will look at that too.
We'll try to remember all this stuff. Um, I'll take notes while I ask you this question.
So, um, any big road trips real quick, uh, any, any trips for software planned in 2016,
you're going to strata again, you go into do anything else.
There's no plans just yet. Um, we'll see. All right. I'll be a better software next year,
my 20th anniversary. So I'm trying to think of something, um,
20th work anniversary wedding anniversary. Ah, so, um, the important one, the work one
doesn't matter. Yeah. The work one happened already. Yeah. I thought it, I thought maybe
there was that we, we had that story before. So I have a few months to figure out what I'm
going to do there. Um, but other than that, I would love to be able to go back to strata
again. We'll see if I can pull that off. Very cool. Um, this year for me, I'm going to do better
software, uh, in, uh, Las Vegas in June, going down for a workshop, probably just stay a couple
nights, but if any of the three are there, I'm sure I'll bring it up as we get closer.
Uh, I'm actually beginning to get really excited about that presentation. I think I can do a
good, a good workshop. Um, when is it in June? Oh, do you already know you had to submit a,
proposal, right? Yeah, I was told, yeah, the topic was given to me. It's another thing. It's
experimentation. Okay. Um, one thing I'd like to do, I don't know if you know about this and I,
it never works out. And, uh, as far as, um, I mentioned before that when I go to comp,
it's hard for me to commit that time away. Um, both from family and from work. There's always
so much stuff going on, but one of these years, I'm very curious to go to, uh, Esther Derby teaches,
um, Weinberg's, um, problem solving leadership course, uh, about twice a year. I still really
want to go to that before it's like, doesn't happen again forever. Um, here are great things
about that. So that may happen in 2016. We'll see how I do. Other than that, I have no plans.
That reminds me it like every so often Edward Tuff comes, comes by. I think it's Tufftee, right?
Sure. We'll go with Tufftee. He comes by and does a presentation. It's very rare, but I haven't really
I think he comes by like once a year. Yeah, it's very, I've never gone. I, I've thought about going
a couple of times, but yeah, I'll put it on the back pocket. Okay. Let's do some predictions
before we get out of here today. Okay. So, um, what you kind of hinted at it already, you kind of,
maybe you have a different one in your, in your list to there. Uh, but what's a big trend that you
or something, I dunno, some, some trend in software use. You'll see
software engineering in 2016. I didn't, I didn't talk about it. Um, so, uh,
I was that one I spent a long time thinking about because when I, when I look at this,
I generally think through where do I see momentum? And it's usually across now four different themes.
Do I see a momentum difference in dev, PM, test, or, or now data science. Okay. And for 2016,
um, for most of those, I do think, uh, I don't think we'll hit a tipping point in any of those
things. I do think we'll see much of the same, um, uh, slow moving crap that we do today. I do think
dev not testing their code. Uh, uh, I do think the arguments around, well, you don't even want dev
testing their own code will still persist. I don't think we'll have hit the tipping point
but that creates the momentum to shut down those arguments. Um, but on the data science,
I do think in 2016, so my prediction is on, I call it the rise of the crappy data analyst.
Um, I do think what we will see is a large glut of people who have used
a couple of techniques, um, plus have a skill around, uh, professing the emperor's beautiful
new clothes and convince, uh, lots of people to do really, really, really bad things without
sufficient due diligence. So I can take that sound bite without the very beginning where you say
they'll use a few techniques, they'll, uh, make some choices and convince people to do bad things.
And you could apply that to people. Fair enough. Fair enough. Right. But, but data scientists has
data science has been the big buzzword for a couple of years. A couple of years. Um, I do
think training, like I don't know if you're aware, um, there is now an internal certification
process for Microsoft. You can go into, I don't, I haven't done any research on this,
but I got to imagine it's going to be something ridiculous, like a 12 week course
and get a cert certificate signed by Satya. Oh my God. So I don't care.
You have to see the parallel in this trend and software testing at Microsoft.
Tell a story. And I do in that, in that, in that big, uh, doorstop, I wrote
about the first tester at Microsoft. It's like, Oh, we'll have this guy. Oh, this is,
this guy does some cool stuff. We'll hire lots of them, lots of them. And then eventually figure
out, well, only a couple of these people are good and they, and, and this growth happens out of
letting a million flowers bloom or whatever. Like we'll come up with, we'll have way too many of
them thinking it. And at the time thinking it's the right thing. Then we realized, Oh yeah,
some of these people suck at this, but some people, if we can weed them out and nurture them,
actually are helping things go forward. So I think what you're saying is you're seeing the same thing
is happening. We're in the midst of that with data science. And I do think, I do think the,
the, the great data science calling C U L L I N G calling. Yeah.
Yeah. We'll, we'll begin. That would be interesting. I think there are more and more managers I talked
to at Microsoft to realize, Oh, we don't, this was stupid to think we need a team of data scientists,
although you have one, but it's for a larger group, but that we need like a, just a few,
one or two really good ones. So what do you think actually may ask, what do you think the ratio
is? What do you think the dev to data science ratio is right is for a mature product? Didn't
mean to put you on the spot. I don't, I don't know if it's answerable. So there is a min.
I would say there's absolutely a minimum and, and right. You gotta have one. No. So,
those who the, the, the one and a half reader who read my last blog posts will,
will realize that, that I do think that, that no matter if you're going to get into data science,
you do need a minimum team of three to four people, but their skills are very diverse.
But in order to scale, I want to say some, right. Making up numbers,
but something along the lines of like one out of a hundred. Yeah. It was a stupid, it was a dumb
question. And I think really that's the answer I wanted. It's as the team grow, you need a minimum
number. So you can get the diversity of skillsets because having one person that can do all of that
is, is impossible, impossible. See the minimum team to get the skills you need. But after that,
they can scale well. Cool. Were you done with that before I go on? On that one. Okay. So,
I mean, I have other things on 2016, but well, let me talk about my trend because it actually
disagrees. Dear trend a little bit. I don't know if we'll get to a tipping point in these roles things,
but the thing I was thinking of when I saw this, when I gave you this idea was
when did JW do the test is dead thing? It's been like five years, right? Four years ish.
Doesn't matter. So I'm thinking more than five years. Okay. And blah, blah, blah,
to metaphor, et cetera, et cetera. Ignore this part. So I had an interesting conversation over
Twitter. I'm not going to rehash it last week, which led to my latest blog post on roles and
fluidity. I'm not sure if you got a chance to read that. And with the idea that there are,
I think there is a school. Oh, I can't use school. That's already, shoot. There is, uh,
belief system. No, maybe let's call it a, I'm not sure what to call it. There is a group of people
in software engineering who really truly believe that you are inclined towards development or you
inclined towards testing and doing both is you just can't be very good at it. I've had arguments
in the past and I round our great testers born or made. So I, and the answer is it depends,
it's a little of both. Uh, and I, as you know, I believe in generalized and specialist center,
et cetera. Um, I got a, uh, uh, DM and Twitter from guy used to work with the Microsoft's
known Amazon for a while. We stay in touch and a pretty cool guy. And he said, my post is actually
getting a lot of, it inspired a lot of, uh, great conversations over at Amazon. That's interesting.
Um, because the idea is there's a group of people that believe that, uh, you can't, you
moving between those is the difference. And the argument I got in the Twitter, you can't do both
at the same time. I said, yeah, you can't do any two things at the same time, but you can move
fluidly between them. I believe that contributing to software engineering, uh, anyone can do.
Anyone does every role, but there is flu. I'm not going to say, so I don't want to be
misquoted and say anyone can do anything, but they're definitely, I believe is ability to move
fluidly between roles, whether they would be traditionally considered a development role
or a testing role or a data analysis role or whatever. Do you have the ability? I could
work on a team and be Phil partially, I could be one of the roles that Brent describes in his
post on data science and also do some other skills, which may be testing or maybe development.
I believe, and I wouldn't do them at the same time. I would move fluidly between those roles
as needed. So I think, I think the riff and discussion between those two groups is going to grow
a lot this year. I, cause I see, um, more. The fluids versus the solids. The fluids versus the
solids. So you can call it that if you want, cause I see more and more people talking about
this without using those words, but the fluidity of different roles, you know, whether they're on
agile teams or, uh, or not, or how they contribute to software in different ways. And I see the
people in the other camp digging their heels in hard saying, no, in order to me, for me to be
a good tester, I can only test and I'm paraphrasing there, please don't yell at me, but, um, but I
do see them as the fluids and the solids. And I think the fluids and the solids that, um, it's
not going to be a war or a fight, but that riff, that point of discussion between those groups
is going to be prominent in 2016. I think you'll see talks about that. Um, if in keynotes at multiple
2016 conferences, what do you think about that? I dunno. That actually surprises me because,
because that implies that. So you're, you go on the, the conference scene, uh, way more than I do.
Um, and I kind of would have expected that that had already come to a head. No, no, I'm,
but I'm just, I'm just starting to see it get to a point where there's enough critical mass on either
side for there to be a healthy discussion. I won't call it a argument, but a healthy discussion
about pros and cons. So in some regards, this is, this is actually a problem that's happening on
my team right now. Right. So, um, I like this, this phrasing, I mean, the, the, the fluids versus
the solids, right. Um, in my last team, uh, as I've, as I've mentioned multiple times,
I've helped multiple teams try to transition to, to agile. Um, and, uh, the last team, the argument
wasn't around fluid versus solid. It was around generalists versus specialists. And no matter
what I tried, I couldn't get the, um, the view was I rep, I represented the generalists.
And I'm like, no, I don't know how to say this more clearly. I hate them both.
Right. I, I'm not, but the reason why is because, uh, the, the people who were, who, who felt they
were against me were clearly on the side of specialists. And since they knew that they were
against me, they assumed you had to be a generalist. Yeah. Well, therefore, inductively, I was a
generalist. Um, it's like, um, when people asked me about politics, I'm like, the, I'm neither. So I,
I think I told you before I'm a libertarian. And one of the stances from a libertarian is I firmly
believe that both the Republicans and the Democrats are wrong. Anyway, anyway, the boring,
yeah. Where was I trying to get to? I don't know. Oh, so the, you think that's going to come to a
head? I don't know if it's going to come to a head. I think, and because a head means something
different than that. I think that I think the discussions and the, the, I think that you will
see a significant rise in the discussions between the fluids and the solids on, on software. This
is related to what I think is the biggest change that will happen at Microsoft. Great transition.
What is that? Um, I say, I said, much like what I was saying around the rise of the crappy data
analyst, I think a new group will form where there'll be a battle between this, this, um,
craptastic data science. I think we'll start to see data science being scientific at the company
in general. It sounds like the same as your last, your last prediction. It is. But I, one of the
things that I think will happen, one of the consequences is I think quality orgs will die.
Ah, that's that, that I like. Um, I do think, so what I put here, I think there'll be a glut of
amateur data analysts that will result in bullshit reports, data puke and a whole bunch of
inaction ability. I still love that term data puke. I use that on my boss and he paused like,
he goes, yeah, data puke. My boss loses it too. It's not my term, but I, I adore it. Um,
and then I also think that we'll see a rise, unfortunately, of a bias beginning to flourish.
That's known as the Texas sharpshooter bias. Can't wait to hear what this is. The Texas
sharpshooter bias. So imagine this as a metaphor. It's, I hope so. You, you, you got a, uh,
it's called the Texas sharpshooter bias. You can look it up on Wikipedia, but imagine a guy
shooting with his eyes closed at a barn. Okay. Bang, bang, bang, bang, bang. And then opens his eyes,
looks at the barn and then paints the target where the best shots are. Gotcha. That's the
Texas sharpshooter bias. Okay. Uh, it's essentially, um, you, you find a group and then, uh, essentially
claim, Oh, it's significance, blah, blah, blah. And then I get it on that one clustering. Okay.
I do also think that dev will still refuse to test their own code.
I think they're going to move from refuse to have no idea how to do it,
which is a, which is a significant transition point. And I do think that,
but I do think the biggest prediction is that we will learn, um, a whole bunch of new excuses as
to why they shouldn't. Okay. I do think we are. So in terms of the fluids and the solids, I think
that I think your prediction of mine might be aligned because I do think what's happening
is, um, in my view, the solids here are their foundation of, of their fundamental base for their
point of view is neophobia. It's a fear to change. Hey, I've done this for 20, 20 years.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it. And none of you have been able to convince me it's broke.
Therefore I'm not changing. And it's fine. Primarily fear-based, but I do think that there is a,
a stronger chance that, um, several groups, um, like the nice thing about fluids is we can,
we can encircle the solids. And I do think that these like, these folks will begin to feel trapped
and, um, it'll be somewhat like the cage tiger. And that's what's going to cause,
if anything, this battle that you're talking about, this battle that you,
this further entrenchment, um, the positive thing knows, though, I do think that when that
starts to happen, the fluids will outnumber the solids. Interesting. The last, the predicted,
this is my predicted positive surprise. Test teams that have shifted to dev as a whole team
and have spent the last year practicing the dev craft will begin to get noticed
and noticed as not only a force to contend with, but better than the traditionalist teams.
Yeah, I think, and we've seen that, um, but not in general, not in general, I have seen from dev,
from tests, testers at Microsoft that have moved to dev positions, um, the good testers have become
the best developers on the team. And in many, many cases, I don't know that as a whole, all those tests
into a dev team, the, um, but a few of those teams will start to get noticed and, uh, for
their engineering excellence. Okay. We'll see about that. All right. So I hope you don't have
a long list for this because we're getting a little short on time, but, um, oh, I have to do
my biggest Microsoft change. And then, uh, maybe you're like your prediction of a software failure.
Oh, that was easy. Okay. I'm actually going to go a little less about engineering, a little more
about Microsoft and stock analysts, Mary Jo Foley. I know you're not one of the three,
so this is purely made up and I promise this has no, nothing from insight other than my experience
and my watching the groups at Microsoft. But here, I'm going to throw this out there
just to be a little bit more broader and, uh, um, I dunno, um, what the right adjective is here,
but I think, I think 2016 is the year Microsoft stops, cancels development on Windows phone.
I just want to throw it out there. Probably not going to happen, but I can think of a lot of good
business reasons to do so. Yeah. I'm trying to think of things.
I have lots of thoughts here, but I don't actually know. Um, unfortunately,
I don't know. I want to say it now. That's it. And then we'll just leave it. And if it happens
again, we will have a special, I'll let you do that. But the things that I'm aware of,
I don't know which ones are publicly announced or not. So I'm just going to say,
huh, interesting prediction, Alan. Thank you very much. All right. And to close, um,
let's predict the biggest software failure of 2016 in advance. Again, we'll have a big
party if these happen. Brent, shoot. Uh, so I, I took software failure in a broad sense. Of course
you did. And I, I think this is the first leap year, um, uh, of note since, uh, uh, data science and
being counting has gotten so dominant and I'm expecting to see all kinds of interesting screw
ups as a result. Interesting. I think I predict there will be, so we'll, we'll, we'll note that. So
Brent predicts, if I can summarize very massive leap year bugs, but it may not be software bugs,
right? It could be conclusion bugs. Yep. I predict that there will be a major software glitch,
failure, unreliability, or sec or security issue in tabulation and counting of the 2016 presidential
election. Yeah. And then that may not come out on election night, but within the weeks after
there will be massive controversy about some sort of software error or failure or hacking or
something, um, during the 2016 presidential election. The thing I do think, along those lines
that I do think I can very confidently say, um, this election will be the, uh, did you ever play
C robots? No. You know, this game? No. Okay. Old school game. You can write a little code
where it's basically little robots. Um, you can't visualize them. So it's just, I can implement a,
a class of code. You can implement a class of code and we can do, uh, robot wars. Although there
was no UI. It was all just, Hey, Alan's robot one, right? Um, I do think that this election is going
to be the battle of ML, the battle of machine learning, learning, like everyone now knows that,
um, Obama made predictive analytics and machine learning a big part of his first
election. And I do think all the sides are now going to leverage that. So, and to give myself
some, uh, leeway in my prediction, I'll say maybe that it can even come out. The controversy
may even come out as that maybe that one of the candidates, whoever we end up with running
head to head, uh, relies on that and it ends up their data is completely wrong or was hacked to
make them think they're wrong or whatever something big will come up. All right. Yep.
And anything else, Brent? No. Oh, I think it's time to say, uh, save for so long till 2016.
So I, everyone have a great holiday. Oh, that was sweet. Yeah. Have a great holiday from,
from both of us from AB testing to you. Yeah.
I'm Alan. I'm Brent. We'll see you in 2016. Bye.